---
layout: post
author: Chel
title: Virtual Reality and The Future _ What would VR look like in 2030?
seo: Virtual Reality VR & Future VR in 2025
description: Virtual Reality is a technology that is relatively new in the industry, there exists some skeptisism about it but if we really use our imagination as is required, what does the future hold for us in VR. This blog post conatins some personal opinion of mine and some ideas that could become our reality in a few years
img-src: ../assets\images\Blog\virtual_reality_future
---

Virtual Reality is a fascinating field among the many branches of Artificial Intelligence. It is a question if it doesn't stand on the same level as AI and can bring us tremendously big advantages as we see AI doing now in 2020. At the moment, Virtual Reality has already been adopted in a few industries like the gaming, construction, production, housing among others. For VR to become "the next big thing" in tech it has to be able to generate a huge value for industries. This is only logical as, increasing values means big investments made by invetors which in turn brings advancement to the field by research, building ease-of-use tools and opportunities. The way I see it is this, I have so much hope on VR becoming a massive technological field for so many reasons. 

For Virtual Reality to be embraced by majority if not all industry, it has to impact them by bringing progression and developments in lesser amount of time. I think that currently VR can find application in many sectors but not all have adopted it seeing it as a relatively new technology, in short, a lot of skeptisism surrounds VR. But it should not be that way. Looking at it from a strategic viewpoint, you can see that generally, history always repeats itself. In 1998 when the internet was just taking off, many businesses feared to integrate it in their business and transfer their presence online, and now?, Every business that desires more customers simply knows that the solution is E-bussiness with good advertising and customer targeting. Another example can be seen in Artificial Intelligence. In,................. Ten Years Later, the result is massive alomost mind-blowing. Artificial Intelligence with it's many sub-fields is the main talk and development force of every single industry in the world today. I see Virtual Reality having the same prospects in just a few years time and I want to be a participating force in this nurturing period of VR. Below I would give some exciting ideas that might seem even fantasical to some people, but after seeing past happenings and also knowing that the world we live in demands technology that can shift our concepts of what is possible, I have no reason to not believe in them. 

Before you go on to read these future applications of VR, know that I don't subject my mind to fantasy thinking rather I use my imaginations in a logical way. Another point is this, I am not just writing for that sake with the hope that in time to come, these technologies would be available to all, and I can be a part of the world that uses it to be more productive or just for fun, No, it is my goal to contribute to innovations in VR and these are no exception. For the fact that you are now reading this blog post, you most likely have a mind just like me and you're generally interested in Virtual Reality. 

A few days ago, I read an article "<a href="https://www.incomediary.com/business-startup-lessons-elon-musk">Elon Musk's 15 Lessons for your Startup Business</a>" and among the lesson's a phrase that stood out for me was "Think out of this World". I have been using my mind in that frame ever since. To the skeptical, you can only see what Elon has achieved by thinking out of this world.


<h3>Ideas for Virtual Reality that would Change our Paradigm of Reality</h3>

* Physical Multiplayer: Here, I refer to mulitplayer games where we humans can compete or collaborate virtually pystically inside a game i.e with our full body and assuming control as in reality. This is something that is extremely exciting for me and of course would be for every other gamers out there. In fact, it introduces a new genre of gaming that could be built on top every other game type that exists. As a reference, this idea was demonstrated in the popular Virtual Reality Movie "<a href="https://www.imdb.com/title/tt1677720/">Ready Player one</a>" also in "<a href="https://www.imdb.com/title/tt1535615/">Best Player</a>. I believe that this can be achieved with VR, although it has not be introduced in any games in market today, it should be in development or perhaps in the mind of developers. If one thing, I am interested in the medium that would achieve this. Of course we have unity to build muliplayer VR games but for this idea, I think developers would have to spend more time thinking of the server aspect of this.

* Thoughts Projection: What if we can visualize our thoughts or imaginations through a Virtual Reality Medium. This idea can be considered as hogwash to a lot of people and in fact it isn't founded on so much ground by me. I don't have the lowest degree in Virtual Reality, but since when did that matter. This idea can be likened to when the wright brothers imagined <b>A bird that would carry humans for long-distances</b>, it seemed stupendous, even credulous in that age, but not so much today. In fact, what is amazing about it is that after it took them just 3 years to achieve this after it was first conceived as an idea. So what exactly do i mean by "Thought Projection". Sometimes it can be hard for we humans to keep a particular train of thought, even worse we can fail to be creative with our imagination. Using the technology called VR, we can have a medium or device that can construct or project meaning visualizations/insights/dashboards/graphics of what it hears. That is, we dictate our thoughts out and they can be transformed to virtual images. The realization of this would be a tremendous achievement for the world!. It would mean more successful innovations as people are using their many ideas in a constructive and creative way. 


Virtual Reality is a Technology that brings us closest to a fantasical future. It holds can can bring a lot of developments,fun,innovations to the world. The ideas listed above is something that honestly I see becoming reality in just a few years time. There are other fields of technology that holds big things in time to come like Quantum Computing, Artificial General Intelligence, Computer Vision, Internet of things etc. The combination of these technology would really give us a changed world, by changed world, what I mean is: A world without pollution, untimely death, corruption, terrorism. I argue that no human should lose their lives when it isn't at the prime of age beacuse life is wonderful and beautiful and all has the right to enjoy it. In short I believe in a world just like in the movie from 2004 "Wall-E". 

To developers: The world of Virtual Reality is immence, it requires great effort and harmonious coorperation for we to see big advancement in it. I am open to teaming up with individuals interested and excited about VR. If you are one, don't hesitate to reach out to me. You can do that by leaving a comment below or visiting <a href="https://channelai.netlify.app/about">About's</a> page where my many contacts info are linked. 

